Learning doesn't have to be, you know, a non-fun thing, you know.
It can be, you know, a good experience.
Would you call this scholarly pursuit?
In a way, it does end up being that way, you know.
You sort of become like the authority, you know.
People look up to you.
Sometimes it's really bad because if I'm looking for a book,
Already they think that I'm looking for it because there's some hidden name behind it, and it's worth a million dollars or something like that, because I know the internet.
It gets to be ridiculous.
Where do you do your work?
I mean, do you have to travel much?
You mentioned copyright stuff, and I mean, is this stuff you're able to do within a close proximity to it?
Yeah, I can do that, yeah.
But I go to either PPL or...
AAS, of course, for the older stuff.
For the older stuff, yeah.
A lot of, you know, research I've done, you know, at the New England Genealogical Historical Society to, you know, get basic information, you know.
For this guy here, I've been, you know, supplying him with all kinds of material.
I mean, one of the big problems I find about today
is that newspapers really don't carry the information they used to carry years ago.
I mean, newspapers used to have marriage columns, birth columns, death columns.
Intentions to get married.
Court columns.
Very detailed court columns.
Divorces.
And they've done away with all that stuff.
They've done away with all that stuff.
Newspaders used to carry some great literature.
Fiction.
I mean, at one time, you know.
And some of them gets original.
The Boston Globe really started out that way.
Capitalizing on crime and stuff like that.
Tell me a little bit about book scouting.
Well, I did it for, you know, George.
Most of the time, I tried to keep the stuff myself unless I really needed the money, you know.
But where did you look?
Well, at that time, I think the Morgan Memorial in Boston.
had, like, every Monday or so.
One particular day, they would put out all their new books.
You mean newly arrived books?
Right, yeah, newly arrived books.
And, uh, it'd be like a madhouse.
Book scouts and book dealers and everybody.
Everybody was hip to it.
Well, they were all hip to it, but, I mean, everybody had their field, you know, more than one of the gifts.
So, uh, if you, you know, if you had...
had three or more fields, he would come up to you and say, you know, keep your eye out for this for me, keep your eye out for that for me, you know, because he couldn't be in every place at one time.
Were you looking for titles, or just, was it more or less targets of opportunity, as we used to say in the Navy?
Both.
And then, you know, I would have, I don't know, I just had a sixth sense about, you know, a book being worth money.
How did that work?
I don't know.
By feel, by sense?
I could, like, sniff them out, you know, that it was a limited edition, just by feeling the paper, you know.
But there would be nothing particularly compelling... About the binding, you know.
About the title page or the... Well, sometime, you know, the composition of the title page would certainly indicate that it was...
What would you say one of your greatest finds was?
Can you think of anything offhand?
Any tips for collectors or people who might go out?
What's your best advice for people?
Follow your mind and your heart.
Well, in what respect?
Collect what you like to collect.
But I mean, for finding things that are worthwhile, as opposed to things that are junk, or maybe in your view there is... Well, another man's junk is somebody else's treasure, you know.
You don't know, you know.
I'd say.
Does the Morgan Memorial still have these, uh, sales?
I don't know, but I guess, uh, you know, like, uh,
Salvation Army's bookstores.
I mean, they have, you know, books that they carry.
When I lived in Washington, D.C., they had one of the best second-hand bookstores, the Salvation Army.
Salvation Army?
Yeah, because people were always moving in and out of Washington, and they had good books.
Right.
They may not be valuable.
Well, some of them might be.
Yeah.
You know, the best places I find are, like, these Friends sales, where they get fresh stuff that's coming out of the people that are donating, and they're not being handled by professionals.
Well, don't kid yourself.
I mean, most of these places that have book sales now call in somebody, you know, to look over.
And, you know, like at Brandeis, if the library, you know, needs stuff, I mean, you know, they'll call through the good stuff and find out does the library need this.
So the stuff is looked at.
You want to show me some of your stuff?
Well, we didn't want to start.
I mean, I got a million things that I collected.
I'd love to take a look.
I'd love to get a sense of what you're doing.
I think I'll leave the camera here.
Maybe if we want to shoot, we'll come back and do that.
Hello.
That's a little small collection I read on Sherlock Holmes.
And most of them are really pastiches or parodies of Sherlock Holmes.
I don't think I could afford to buy the first editions of Sherlock Holmes.
But a lot of these are first editions.
Some of them are first paperback editions.
That's one area that I collected.
Just some of my movie books.
Movie books.
These are references?
I don't try to buy a book about some movie has some title.
Have you ever paid a lot of money for a book?
No.
Yeah, one time I collected, you know, limited edition.
Not the limited edition.
Oh, I might want to take a few pictures of this stuff.
I mean, this is... This is...
Yeah, I've got to get some pictures, Victor.
This is too good.
I'm going to go get my camera.
Books are there and there.
They're all over there.
And you know where everything is, right?
Well, I've got a good idea where it is.
You don't catalog it or anything like that?
I just don't have the time.
I mean, research has to go on.
Cataloging is for somebody else.
So how do you feel when you hear about things going off to be pulped?
I bet you think everything should be saved, huh?
Yeah, everything printed really has a value at some point in time.
How do you feel about this trend towards digitization of stuff?
Well, I don't mind making it available, the text and things like that.
But how about libraries that are actually going to go the route of...
using that in place of books and then actually get rid of their books, isn't it?
Well, you'll never get rid of books.
I don't care what you say.
You'll never, never get rid of books.
What makes you so confident on that?
Something about a book that's a book.
And what do you use these happy faces for?
Oh, my wife and I, we belong to this.
She has Huntington's disease.
So, you know, I send out birthday cards to them.
Oh, I thought maybe you'd use them as some kind of a designation for a book or something.
And so these are newspapers and stuff.
Pulp Ear.
New series.
E-A.
Pulp Era is what it is.
I'm looking at it backwards.
Now, there's quite a few.
Either I, you know, have articles or letters, you know, and this thing that I call it.
You know, I've got to tell you, it's very orderly, though.
It is?
It doesn't look too orderly to me.
Do you have a name for this room, or is this just pretty much... My name.
Well, if I have a name, it's not pretty beautiful.
I mean everything.
So you said you've actually paid good money for some, for some... Yeah, I mean, I used to collect this Bernie Bull Press.
Oh, well, that's big.
I met him, you know.
Uh, yeah.
He's a nice guy.
I mean, I sold quite a few of them off, but, uh, I used to collect, I had quite a few of these from him, uh, Henry, uh, what the hell is his name?
Henry, whatever his name is.
Henry Morris?
Yeah, he invited me to write something for him.
I knew this guy's law, sir.
Leonard Schlosser, yeah, his wife is Mary Schlosser, and she's still around.
A peer on paper, two essays on paper history.
Yeah, well, Morris is a genius on paper.
Yeah, right.
He used to make his own paper, he told me.
In fact, he wrote me when my book came out to tell me something about the gold beaters, you know.
Just a few small little things that I kept from the experience of the war.
Some of the books are dedicated to me.
Really?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Like which one?
This one's a great one.
And the title of this book is The Passionate War by Peter Wyden, W-Y-D-E-N.
I guess it's his son that's the Wyden from... Oh, yeah.
All right.
And the subtitle is, To Victor, one of my very favorite people without whom truly this could never have been done.
All the very best.
And salutes.
Peter.
Very good.
Well, this is pretty something.
Argosy.
Stories of Ray Bradbury, Richard Hughes, Michael Foster, Neil Pettison, Lawrence Kirk, Jeffrey Hussle.
Like I said, those are pretty...
Tarzan, The Lost Adventure.
Right.
No.
Pretty recent.
Yeah.
And then we got some from 1910, 1912.
Detective Tales.
And then we got some darn novels here.
Boy's Own.
Those are great, huh?
These, these are great covers.
The Pirate Doctor.
Series of prize novels.
Orphan, what's that, Seamstress?
Yeah.
Orphan Seamstress.
Star of the Fallen, F-A-L-L-E-N.
Matricides, that's apostrophe S, daughter.
Wow.
Now, are these written pseudonymously?
No, these are the real people.
And what's the era of these?
These are probably 1816.
Well, so these are pretty old.
They're in pretty good shape, huh?
Yeah.
So these are Civil War era.
Yep.
This is one of the Spicy Detectives.
Ah, Spicy, S-B-I-C-Y, Detective Stories, Disc, D-I-S-C, by Corey Moran.
Yeah, these are all students.
Spicy Adventure Stories.
Oh, China Charter by Clint Morgan.
So you'd see names like Clint Morgan there.
and the name of, like, Cary, C-A-R-Y, Moran, M-O-R-A-N.
This would pique your interest, right?
Who is this guy, right?
Yeah, but today still nobody knows who they are.
Is that right?
Yep.
I've got a collection here of what they call photo playbooks.
They were, you know, books that movies were adopted from, and they would put scenes...
into the uh into the uh books uh the book could have been published five years before as you know real sir when it became a movie uh cross it and dunlap would republish it with scenes from the movie is this where most of your stuff is in this room no you haven't seen anything yet you're gonna go down the basement okay good
I'm going to get my camera.
I do want to get some pictures of this stuff.
This is pretty good.
Yeah, this is great stuff.
So how long have you lived out in Marlboro?
Uh, since 1979.
And look at this room over here, also packed.
Okay, this room is packed.
Is this the guest room?
Yeah, my sister was here.
I had to clear this old bed off, make it available.
There's a microfilm reader.
Oh, you got a microfilm reader over here?
Yeah.
There's another area that I collect in, and those are novels based on real crimes, real murder, crime, murder, particularly murder.
You really have a sense of that.
You have an appreciation for the...
Bizarre things, don't you, huh?
Murder, science fiction, call it murder, Humphrey Bogart poster on the wall over here.
I'm a member of, you know, God knows, huh?
Just go ahead, you're a member of what?
You know, God knows how many organizations.
The Book Club of California and stuff like that.
New England.
The Armchair Detective, over here.
That's the Armchair, one word, detective.
Mean Streets, this is Australia.
Mean Streets, two words, M-E-A-N, Mean Streets.
Australia's Crime and Mystery Magazine.
Mystery Readers, that's plural, journal.
That's a recent book.
Yeah.
All right, it's first edition.
Now, you buy these new?
No, I don't know.
I seem to have a feel for collecting certain authors.
And suddenly you know that all of a sudden they're... That's a pretty good book, that Alien.
Yeah.
That came out last two years ago, I think it is.
Then I try to buy every mystery book that I can lay my hands on published before 1940.
And how you doing?
How many would you say you have?
Oh, probably about 500.
Let me just go read off a couple of titles, if you don't mind.
You want to take a picture?
Yeah, I do.
The Riddle of the Mysterious Light by H-A-N-S-H-U.
Hanshu.
Right.
No, I uncovered a bunch of stories that he had written that have never made it into books.
What's his first name, Hanshu?
Thomas.
American, displaced American, moved over to England, died there.
Willing, Killing Jazz by Booth, The Riddle of the Frozen Flame, again by Hanshue, The Case of the Fifth Key by Gregory Dean, The Murder in the P-A-L-L-A-T by J.S.
Fletcher.
So you wonder if you'd find any of these in Harvard University or the BPL, huh?
Harvard, you might.
I think they got them.
There's a lot of reference books in there.
Tons of them.
So do you want to go?
Let me get my camera and I'll shoot a couple pictures up here.
Let's see if I can get my details.
You hate to throw away things?
These are crates of detective mystery novels.
Right.
Mystery, adventure, science fiction, westerns, you name it.
Do you go through them?
When you look at acquisition, what do you do with it?
Well, I just hang on to it until, you know, maybe somebody writes something about it, I have to verify it.
What he's written.
I mean, I'm a great checker-upper, you know.
I just
try to, you know, to check the facts.
I think that's all.
Now, this stuff, do you kind of pick it up at yard sales, anywhere you can find it, right?
Do you buy it formally, like through dealers?
Sometimes dealers, sometimes flea markets.
This is the kind of stuff that they sold back in the 50s.
I mean, they were really nothing, but they gave them, you know, fancy titles.
Now, all right, so what's the worth in this to you?
I don't mean the... I mean the monetary worth?
No, no, the worth, the actual worth, not the monetary worth.
We're looking at...
We had a magazine called Boy Madness, another one called Wayward Nymph.
Now, see, it said that it was really published under the name Beach Party.
Now, who was Ralph Douglas?
D-R-U-G, right.
I have a good idea who it is.
You do?
Yeah.
But you don't know.
You haven't been able to know about that.
Well, I mean, I can find out maybe within a week.
If you cared enough to go find out.
Yeah.
I mean, I happen to know that there was a writer at this time that wrote for this particular company.
whose name was Douglas Duperot.
How do you spell that?
D-U-P-P-E-R, I don't know.
Something like that.
I know he's dead, because I've checked him up in the Social Security death benefit records.
And his name is Ralph Douglas Dupereaux.
He wrote him the name, both Ralph Douglas and Douglas Dupereaux.
Of course, on the cover we say boy madness.
It's an attractive young woman with a skirt up around her thighs and a healthy young man.
Right.
This is what they read in the 50s.
Especially, you know, these traveling salesmen.
Sure.
What are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10?
There are probably 100, 150 of these boxes, do you think?
Right.
200 maybe?
They're either filled with pulp magazines or paper bags.
And these are Hollinger, H-O-L-I-N-G-E-R.
These are archival boxes?
Yeah.
Acid-free Hollinger boxes.
And I've got a lot of early...
Well, you know, basically what I'm really interested in is popular literature.
Let's take a picture here.
Popular literature, you said.
Well, you know, and how does it affect mankind?
And you think it does affect mankind?
It does affect mankind.
In what respect?
Well, I mean, people make lots of opinions based on what they read.
good, bad, or indifferent.
So what do you think happens to all this stuff at some point?
At some point, hopefully it ends up in a library.
Hopefully.
You're trying to squeeze through a couple of, an area here.
Have you made any, have you talked to any libraries?
Usually, I don't know, I don't know, you know, just what to do, you know.
This is stuff that was printed around the turn of the century.
And we'll look at the title.
It's called King Dan, Eureka Detective Stories, The Factory Detective by George W. Goode, G-O-O-D-E.
Good.
Yeah, he was, uh, I think he came from this area.
Uh-huh.
He lived up around Lawrence, somewhere around there.
The Old Mill Mystery.
That's probably set up in Lowell, where I'm from.
You never know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Secret Service series, detective stories by prominent authors.
S-P-E-C-I-E.
Do you read any of these?
Only when I have to.
So it's not because you like this stuff?
Well, there's something about it, you know.
I just, you know, if somebody tells me this is number 37, I gotta check to see if that is a
Number 37.
Somebody said Number 7 was published on June 26th.
I said, no, it's not June 26th.
It's July 14th.
And, you know, I check.
I check everything.
And you'd be surprised how many mistakes I catch.
Oh, I wouldn't be surprised at all.
And these are things that are supposed to be referenced.
Okay.
bibliographies, things like that.
So what kind of a library do you think would benefit from this?
Probably one that's the most interesting in American popular culture.
Is this something you'd want to present or sell or who knows, right?
I don't know.
Maybe one day I'm walking down the street
I drop dead, my kids get all of it, and they say, what are we going to do?
Let's sell it.
Well, why not?
It's an asset.
Right.
I mean, I have paperbacks that are worth over $100.
Wow.
I hope they know that.
The kids know that?
Well, I continue to put away in a box my goodies.
How many kids do you have?
Two boys.
One's married.
They live around here?
Oh, that's nice.
So when did you close the deli, by the way?
I never asked you that.
I never closed it.
I mean, I left it, and my partner stood there for a while.
Eli's, right?
That's what it was, yeah.
More on-chair detective.
Flurry Queen's mystery magazine.
There's all more letters right there.
Yeah, right.
See, there are thousands, I would say, of items, huh?
Oh, there has to be, I'd say, at least 20,000, 20 to 30,000 items.
You ever rescue anything from the dump?
No, not really.
Very good, Rick.
I want to get a picture of you in the kitchen sitting down, if you don't mind.
That's kind of where you work, I guess.
Yeah, that's where I work.
That's mine, thank you.
What the heck did I do with that notebook?
Thanks.
I'm sorry, one thing leads to another.
You say that's what you find.
Yeah, one piece of information leads to another piece of information.
And then I find that there's something missing somewhere.
You're going to think of nobody else's research.
Right, you know, like back in the good old days, in the late 1800s and the early 1900s, you know, the big thing was more of your animals.
Uh-huh.
I tried researching what melodramas were based on dime novels and stuff like that.
And did you find, did you find them?
They were based on novels.
So Brandeis, you said earlier that it's kind of your way of giving back to the systems.
Right.
I mean, they sort of carried you through, you know.
So they gave me my academic career.
In some small way, I guess.
I'm going to take my leave, sir.
Thank you very much for taking the time to talk to me.
This book is just getting started.
I'm just starting.